# BEM: Block-Element-Modifier methodology

> BEM is a front-end naming method for organizing and naming CSS classes. The Block, Element,
> Modifier methodology is a popular naming convention for class names in HTML and CSS.
>
> Projects of any size with CSS can benefit from a BEM framework—unless writing styles directly > inside already organized JavaScript files and using Styled Components or something similar. To > complement BEM, include some parts of SMACSS which act as a style guide for naming
> conventions. BEM is easy to read and organizes styles, even when projects are extremely large.

## How to implement BEM

There are three main parts of BEM.

- Block: which holds everything(element) inside and acts as a scope.
- Element: which acts as a specific part of the component.
- Modifier: which adds additional styles to a specific element(s).

```html
<div class="head">
  <div class="head__eye head__eye--left">(o)</div>
  <div class="head__eye head__eye--right">(o)</div>
</div>
```

## Two recommended approaches for modifiers: One option on a block level, another on an element level

> Do not leave a modifier alone. Always keep modifiers together with the element class as noted > in code snippet 3. .head**eye should always appear before the .head**eye--small and on the same HTML element.

- 1

```html
<div class="head">
  <div class="head__eye head__eye--left">(o)</div>
  <div class="head__eye head__eye--right">(o)</div>
</div>
```

- 2

```html
<div class="head head--small">
  <div class="head__eye">(o)</div>
  <div class="head__eye">(o)</div>
</div>
```

```scss
.head {
  height: 5em;

  &__eye {
    height: 0.5em;
  }

  &--small {
    height: 80%;

    .head__eye {
      height: 0.4em;
    }
  }
}
```

- 3

```html
<div class="head">
  <div class="head__eye head__eye--small">(o)</div>
  <div class="head__eye">(o)</div>
</div>
```

```scss
.head {
  height: 5em;

  &__eye {
    height: 0.5em;

    &--small {
      height: 0.4em;
    }
  }
}
```

## Avoid managing the state with modifiers.

> Use SAMCCS (another CSS naming convention) with state classes .is-active, .is-open, and .is-valid for clarity.

```html
<div class="head">
  <div class="head__eye is-closed">(o)</div>
  <div class="head__eye">(o)</div>
</div>
```

```scss
.head {
  &__eye {
    height: 0.5em;

    &.is-closed {
      height: 0;
    }
  }
}
```

## Include one level for block, one level for elements.

> In code snippet 5, everything looks easy when using two levels (i.e., block on a first level and elements on a second level). When more levels or more elements are needed, simply keep the original rule of naming the elements. Do not include additional underscores like .head**eye**eyball which breaks the rule. Use mindful naming and everything looks clear when reading the HTML.

```html
<div class="head">
  <div class="head__eye">
    <div class="head__eye-eyeball">
      <div class="head__eye-iris"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```
